# Game Engine

A simple game engine.

## Usage

To build and run the application run the following commands.

```
cmake -S <path to GameEngine> -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
cd build
make
./GameEngine
```

### Documentation

To build the documentation run the following commands.

```
cmake -S <path to GameEngine> -B build
cd build
make doc
```

The generated documentation can be found in `html/index.html`.

### Test

To build and run the tests run the following commands.

```
cmake -S <path to GameEngine> -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
cd build
make
ctest --verbose
```

Note that `ctest` have other flags that can e.g. select which tests to run. Also note that is is
built using the `RelWithDebInfo` configuration. This includes address sanitizer (asan) and
undefined behavior sanitizer (ubsan). These are runtime instrumentations that will detect memory
errors and undefined behavior. The `RelWithDebInfo` configuration also includes debug information
which makes it easier to find where a particular problem occurred as it will contain a detailed
call stack.

#### Test Coverage

Test coverage is a useful tool that measures how much of the source code is covered by tests. To
build and run test coverage, run the following command.

```
cmake -S <path to GameEngine> -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
cd build
make
ctest --verbose -E GameTests
make lcov
```

Note that the `GameTests` is excluded as it does not perform a proper functionality test and it is
unfair to include it in the coverage report. The test coverage report can be found in
`lcov/index.html`.

#### Test under valgrind

To build and run the tests under valgrind run the following commands.

```
cmake -S <path to GameEngine> -B build -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
cd build
make
ctest -T memcheck --verbose
```

Note that the `Debug` configurations is used here. This configuration includes debug information
which makes it easier to find where a particular problem occurred as it will contain a detailed
call stack. Asserts are enabled in this configuration. Unfortunately valgrind is not compatible with
thes anitizers used in the `RelWithDebInfo` configuration. To get full coverage of the dynamic code
analyzers it is therefore required to run the test under two configurations (`RelWithDebInfo` and
`Debug` with valgrind).

### Requirements

The following are required

* gcc
* cmake
* doxygen
* graphviz
* cppcheck
* clang-tidy
* valgrind
* lcov
* include-what-you-use

On an Ubuntu system these can be installed with the following commands.

```
sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get upgrade -y
sudo apt autoremove -y
sudo apt-get install gcc -y
sudo apt-get install cmake -y
sudo apt-get install doxygen -y
sudo apt install graphviz -y
sudo apt-get install cppcheck -y
sudo apt-get install clang-tidy -y
sudo apt install valgrind -y
sudo apt install lcov -y
sudo apt install iwyu -y
```

## Test Framework

A simple test framework has been implemented. It lacks a lot of features like setup/teardown,
fixtures, mocks, etc., but using it in conjunction with `ctest` it is sufficient for a small project
like this. There exists a lot of test frameworks for C but not really any "standard" one that most
project uses.

### Example

The following is an example of a test suite that uses the framework.

```
#include "TestFramework/test_framework.h"

int TF_test_case_status; /* All test suites must define this global variable. */

static void test_my_function_a(void)
{
    TF_assert(my_function_a(1) == 4);
}

static void test_my_function_b(void)
{
    TF_assert(my_function_b(1) == 2);
}

int main(void)
{
    TF_test_case test_cases[] = {
        test_my_function_a,
        test_my_function_b,
    };

    return TF_run_suite(test_cases, 2);
}
```

## Dependency Graph

It is possible to generate dependency graphs using `cmake`. To generate this graph run `cmake` as
usual but append `--graphviz=dependendy_graph.dot` to the command. An image of the graph can then
be generated by running the following command.

```
dot -Tpng -o build/dependendy_graph.png dependendy_graph.dot
```
